# Huly Self-Hosted

Please use this README if you want to deploy Huly on your server with `docker compose`. I'm using a Basic Droplet on Digital Ocean with Ubuntu 23.10, but these instructions can be easily adapted for any Linux distribution.

> [!NOTE]
> Huly is quite resource-heavy, so I recommend using a Droplet with 2 vCPUs and 4GB of RAM. Droplets with less RAM may stop responding or fail.

If you prefer Kubernetes deployment, there is a sample Kubernetes configuration under [kube](kube) directory.

## Installing `nginx` and `docker`

First, let's install `nginx` and `docker` using the commands below if you have not already installed them on your machine.

```bash
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install nginx
$ sudo snap install docker
```

## Clone the `huly-selfhost` repository and configure `nginx`

Next, let's clone the `huly-selfhost` repository and configure the server address. _Please replace **x.y.z.w** with your server's IP address_.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/hcengineering/huly-selfhost.git
$ cd huly-selfhost
$ ./setup.sh x.y.z.w # Replace x.y.z.w with your server's IP address
$ sudo ln -s $(pwd)/nginx.conf /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
```

## Now we're ready to run Huly

Finally, let's restart `nginx` and run Huly with `docker compose`.

```bash
$ sudo systemctl restart nginx
$ sudo docker compose up
```

Now, launch your web browser and enjoy Huly!

## Security

When exposing your self-hosted Huly deployment to the internet, it's crucial to implement some security measures to protect your server and data.

1. Do not expose MongoDB, MinIO, and Elastic services to the internet. Huly does not require them to be accessible from the internet.
2. It is highly recommended to change the default credentials. By default the services, mentioned above, require no authentication, or use default well-known credentials.

## Generating Public and Private VAPID keys for front-end

A VAPID key pair allows your self-hosted application server to deliver Web Push Notifications to your clients via push services.

### Generate the VAPID keys

A VAPID key pair can be generated by a plethora of methods, use whichever method is most convenient for you.\
Some example methods are provided below.

#### Using `Node.js` on your machine to generate VAPID keys:

Install `npm` on Debian based distro:
```
sudo apt-get install npm
```
Install web-push using npm
```
sudo npm install -g web-push
```
Generate VAPID Keys. Run the following command to generate a VAPID key pair:
```
web-push generate-vapid-keys 
```
It will generate both keys that looks like this:
```
=======================================

Public Key:
sdfgsdgsdfgsdfggsdf

Private Key:
asdfsadfasdfsfd

=======================================
```

#### Using `Node.js` in Docker to generate VAPID keys:
Run this docker one-liner to generate a VAPID key pair:
```
docker run --rm node npm exec --package=web-push -- web-push generate-vapid-keys
```
It will generate both keys that looks like this:
```
=======================================

Public Key:
sdfgsdgsdfgsdfggsdf

Private Key:
asdfsadfasdfsfd

=======================================
```

### Store your VAPID keys
Keep these keys secure, as you will need them to set up your push notification service on the server.

Add these keys into `compose.yaml` in section `services:front:environment`:
```
- PUSH_PUBLIC_KEY=your public key
- PUSH_PRIVATE_KEY=your private key
```

## AWS SES email notifications

1. Setup Amazon Simple Email Service in AWS: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ses/latest/dg/setting-up.html

2. Add email address you'll use to send notifications into "SOURCE", SES access such as ACCESS_KEY, SECRET_KEY, REGION

    ```yaml
      ses:
        image: hardcoreeng/ses:v0.6.295
        container_name: ses
        ports:
          - 3335:3335
        environment:
          - SOURCE=<EMAIL_FROM>
          - ACCESS_KEY=<SES_ACCESS_KEY>
          - SECRET_KEY=<SES_SECRET_KEY>
          - REGION=<SES_REGION>
          - PORT=3335
        restart: unless-stopped
    ```

3. Add SES container URL into `transactor` and `account` containers:

    ```yaml
    account:
      ...
      environment:
        - SES_URL=http://ses:3335
      ...
    transactor:
      ...
      environment:
        - SES_URL=http://ses:3335
      ...
    ```

4. In `Settings -> Notifications` setup email notifications for events you need to be notified for. It's a user's setting not a company wide, meaning each user has to setup their own notification rules.

## Love Service (Audio & Video calls)

Huly audio and video calls are created on top of LiveKit insfrastructure. In order to use Love service in your self-hosted Huly, perform the following steps:

1. Set up [LiveKit Cloud](https://cloud.livekit.io) account
2. Add `love` container to the docker-compose.yaml

    ```yaml
      love:
        image: hardcoreeng/love:v0.6.295
        container_name: love
        ports:
          - 8096:8096
        environment:
          - STORAGE_CONFIG=minio|minio?accessKey=minioadmin&secretKey=minioadmin
          - SECRET=secret
          - ACCOUNTS_URL=http://account:3000
          - DB_URL=mongodb://mongodb:27017
          - MONGO_URL=mongodb://mongodb:27017
          - STORAGE_PROVIDER_NAME=minio
          - PORT=8096
          - LIVEKIT_HOST=<LIVEKIT_HOST>
          - LIVEKIT_API_KEY=<LIVEKIT_API_KEY>
          - LIVEKIT_API_SECRET=<LIVEKIT_API_SECRET>
        restart: unless-stopped
    ```

3. Configure `front` service:

    ```yaml
      front:
        ...
        environment:
          - LIVEKIT_WS=<LIVEKIT_HOST>
          - LOVE_ENDPOINT=http://love:8096
        ...
    ```

## Configure OpenID Connect (OIDC)

You can configure a Huly instance to authorize users (sign-in/sign-up) using an OpenID Connect identity provider (IdP).

### On the IdP side
1. Create a new OpenID application.  
   * Use `{huly_account_svc}/auth/openid/callback` as the sign-in redirect URI. The `huly_account_svc` is the hostname for the account service of the deployment, which should be accessible externally from the client/browser side. In the provided example setup, the account service runs on port 3000.  

   **URI Example:**  
   - `http://huly.mydomain.com:3000/auth/openid/callback`  

2. Configure user access to the application as needed.  

### On the Huly side
For the account service, set the following environment variables as provided by the IdP:

* OPENID_CLIENT_ID
* OPENID_CLIENT_SECRET
* OPENID_ISSUER

Ensure you have configured or add the following environment variable to the front service:

* ACCOUNTS_URL (This should contain the URL of the account service, accessible from the client side.)

You will need to expose your account service port (e.g. 3000) in your nginx.conf.

Note: Once all the required environment variables are configured, you will see an additional button on the sign-in/sign-up pages.

## Configure GitHub OAuth

You can also configure a Huly instance to use GitHub OAuth for user authorization (sign-in/sign-up).

### On the GitHub side
1. Create a new GitHub OAuth application.  
   * Use `{huly_account_svc}/auth/github/callback` as the sign-in redirect URI. The `huly_account_svc` is the hostname for the account service of the deployment, which should be accessible externally from the client/browser side. In the provided example setup, the account service runs on port 3000.  

   **URI Example:**  
   - `http://huly.mydomain.com:3000/auth/github/callback`  

### On the Huly side
Specify the following environment variables for the account service:

* `GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`  
* `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`  

Ensure you have configured or add the following environment variable to the front service:

* `ACCOUNTS_URL` (The URL of the account service, accessible from the client side.)  

You will need to expose your account service port (e.g. 3000) in your nginx.conf.

Notes:
* The `ISSUER` environment variable is not required for GitHub OAuth.
* Once all the required environment variables are configured, you will see an additional button on the sign-in/sign-up pages.

## Disable Sign-Up

You can disable public sign-ups for a deployment. When configured, sign-ups will only be permitted through an invite link to a specific workspace.

To implement this, set the following environment variable for both the front and account services:

```yaml
  account:
    ...
    environment:
      - DISABLE_SIGNUP=true
    ...  
  front:    
    ...
    environment:
      - DISABLE_SIGNUP=true
    ...
```

_Note: When setting up a new deployment, either create the initial account before disabling sign-ups or use the development tool to create the first account._
